The University Scholars Programme's purpose is to shape independent, adaptable thinkers and doers who will make an impact in the world.

We do so by offering our students a transformative learning environment, an innovative curriculum, and diverse global opportunities. Our students are imbued with the critical thinking capabilities to blend and transcend traditional disciplines, and have the expanded worldview required to challenge conventional thinking and develop bold, actionable ideas.

Curious means adventurous in thought, pursuing a broad range of intellectual interests and ready to make connections across different domains.

Critical means intellectually rigorous, deeply reflective and having a humility born of awareness of the limitations of our own knowledge.

Courageous means willing to consider differing points of view, unafraid to face challenges and to act upon ideas.

Engaged means extending the frontiers of knowledge in energetic and creative ways, prepared to navigate and help shape a complex world in a responsible way.

Each year, about 200 incoming NUS undergraduates are admitted to USP.
A USP student is one who pursues a major in one of seven NUS partner faculties or schools, and seeks – through the USP curriculum – strength, intellectual rigour and connection across disciplines.

A USP student values intense academic inquiry, research, exploration and engagement. Within an educational environment that supports diverse initiatives, myriad opportunities and a sustained residential experience, USP students form a community that is at once curious, critical, courageous and engaged.

It is our aim that, at the end of four years with USP and having attained an Honours degree at a NUS faculty or school, a USP graduate will have the confidence to make substantial and meaningful contributions to solving the big problems of our changing world.

USP students earn 70% of their academic credits in their home faculty and 30% in USP.

USP students live at the USP residential college called Cinnamon College for a minimum of two years.