The University Scholars Programme (USP) is an undergraduate academic programme established in 2001 in the National University of Singapore (NUS).

Each year, USP admits around 200 undergraduates from across seven faculties and schools in NUS.

The USP education focuses on strengthening core academic and professional skills – writing and critical thinking, analytical and quantitative reasoning, the ability to ask the right questions and pursue research, and the habit of reflecting upon ideas within a broad intellectual landscape.

We do this through an intensive and rigorous multidisciplinary curriculum, and a rich offering of local and international programmes.

Our focus on core skills complements our students’ strengths in their major disciplines, enabling them to make substantial connections across fields, enhancing their intellectual depth and breadth.

USP students reside in Cinnamon College at the NUS University Town.

Alongside a vibrant student life, the residential college is a space for discussions on diverse issues, allowing our students to develop meaningful engagement with real world matters.

We invite you to learn more about USP, a place for reflecting on enduring deep ideas and searching out new intellectual connections. Of passion for exploration. Of synthesis, collaboration and responsibility. A place where students, professors and alumni form a diverse, forward-looking community that is curious, critical, courageous and engaged.

The University Scholars Programme's purpose is to shape independent, adaptable thinkers and doers who will make an impact in the world.

We offer our students a transformative learning environment, an innovative curriculum, and diverse global opportunities.

Our students are imbued with the critical thinking capabilities to blend and transcend traditional disciplines, and have the expanded worldview required to challenge conventional thinking and develop bold, actionable ideas.

Joining USP also means joining a community of people who are curious, critical, courageous and engaged.

Curious means adventurous in thought, pursuing a broad range of intellectual interests and ready to make connections across different domains.

Critical means intellectually rigorous, deeply reflective and having a humility born of awareness of the limitations of our own knowledge.

Courageous means willing to consider differing points of view, unafraid to face challenges and to act upon ideas.

Engaged means extending the frontiers of knowledge in energetic and creative ways, prepared to navigate and help shape a complex world in a responsible way.

Each year, about 200 incoming NUS undergraduates are admitted to USP.

A USP student is one who pursues a major in one of seven NUS partner faculties or schools, and seeks – through the USP curriculum – strength, intellectual rigour and connection across disciplines.

A USP student values intense academic inquiry, research, exploration and engagement.

Within an educational environment that supports diverse initiatives, myriad opportunities and a sustained residential experience, USP students form a community that is at once curious, critical, courageous and engaged.

It is our aim that, at the end of four years with USP and having attained an Honours degree at a NUS faculty or school, a USP graduate will have the confidence to make substantial and meaningful contributions to solving the big problems of our changing world.

Students admitted to USP are concurrently enrolled in 1 of 7 NUS faculties or schools: Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Law, NUS Business School, School of Computing and School of Design and Environment.

USP students earn 70% of their academic credits in their home faculty and 30% in USP.

USP students live at the USP residential college called Cinnamon College for a minimum of two years.

USP was the first academic programme in Singapore to move into a residential college in 2011.

Life@USP is centred at Cinnamon College which provides the space for constant engagement and interaction amongst students.

 Life@USP has helped to develop a sense of and belonging to the programme among USP students – residents and non-residents alike.

 From sharing meals with peers, professors and visitors to holding thoughtful discussions in the Master’s Commons and their own lounge, fondly known as Chatterbox, students are immersed in an environment conducive to their own personal and intellectual growth.

 Community interactions through Life@USP strongly underpin the USP ethos of inclusiveness, open-mindedness, thoughtfulness, respect across differences, and a strong sense of social and community responsibility.